>> Ifill: THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION HAS CALLED FOR AN
EMERGENCY MEETING ON THE EBOLA
OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA TOMORROW
CALLING IT A GLOBAL PUBLIC
HEALTH CONCERN.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, AFTER
A TEN-YEAR CHASE ACROSS THE
SOLAR SYSTEM, THE EUROPEAN
ROSETTA SPACECRAFT HAS REACHED
ITS DESTINATION.
A COMET BILLIONS OF MILES AWAY.
>> Ifill: PLUS, CALIFORNIA
SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS DEVELOP
A NETWORK OF SENSORS THAT CAN
DETECT EARTHQUAKES BEFORE THEY
HIT.
>> THE SENSORS ARE VERY
SENSITIVE.
IMAGINE A FOOTBALL FIELD, AND
YOU LIFT IT UP ON ONE END, SLIDE
A HUMAN HAIR UNDERNEATH IT, AND
THE SENSORS COULD DETECT THAT
LIFT.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: INVESTIGATORS IN
AFGHANISTAN TODAY PIECED
TOGETHER THE CIRCUMSTANCES
SURROUNDING YESTERDAY'S KILLING
OF A U.S. ARMY GENERAL.
THEY SAID AN AFGHAN SOLDIER HID
IN A BATHROOM, THEN OPENED FIRE
ON A GROUP OF FOREIGN AND AFGHAN
OFFICERS.
MAJOR GENERAL HAROLD GREENE WAS
KILLED, BUT OFFICIALS SAY THERE
WAS NO INDICATION THAT HE WAS
SPECIFICALLY TARGETED.
THE GENERAL'S REMAINS WERE BEING
READIED TODAY TO RETURN TO THE
U.S.
>> Ifill: INDIRECT TALKS BEGAN
IN CAIRO TODAY ON A LONG-TERM
CEASE-FIRE BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
HAMAS.
AN ISRAELI OFFICIAL TOLD REUTERS
HIS GOVERNMENT IS READY TO
EXTEND A 72-HOUR TRUCE, NOW IN
ITS SECOND DAY.
AT THE UNITED NATIONS,
SECRETARY-GENERAL BAN KI-MOON
SAID THE DEATH AND DESTRUCTION
IN GAZA, FROM ISRAELI STRIKES
HAS "SHOCKED AND SHAMED" THE
WORLD.
>> MERE SUSPICION OF MILITANT
ACTIVITY DOES NOT JUSTIFY
JEOPARDIZING THE LIVES AND
SAFETY OF MANY THOUSANDS OF
INNOCENT CIVILIANS.
INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN LAW
CLEARLY REQUIRES PROTECTION BY
ALL PARTIES OF CIVILIANS AND
CIVILIAN FACILITIES, INCLUDING
U.N. STAFF AND U.N. PREMISES.
>> Ifill: BAN CALLED FOR HAMAS
TO HALT ALL ROCKET FIRE AND
WEAPONS SMUGGLING, AND FOR
ISRAEL TO LIFT THE BLOCKADE OF
GAZA.
LATER, IN JERUSALEM, PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
INSISTED ISRAEL'S TACTICS IN
GAZA WERE JUSTIFIED AND
PROPORTIONATE.
HE SAID IT'S HAMAS THAT BEARS
THE BLAME FOR HEAVY CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES.
>> SO IT'S NOT THAT THEY DON'T
WANT THEM.
THEY WANT THEM.
AND THEY PRETTY MUCH SAY SO,
INDEED HAMAS HAS ADOPTED A
STRATEGY THAT ABUSES AND
SACRIFICES GAZA'S CIVILIANS.
THEY USE THEM AS HUMAN SHIELDS
THEY ENDANGER THEM AND
DELIBERATELY INCREASE THE DEATH
TOLL.
>> Ifill: OFFICIALS IN GAZA SAY
NEARLY 1,900 PALESTINIANS DIED
IN THE FIGHTING, MOST OF THEM
CIVILIANS.
ISRAEL LOST 64 SOLDIERS AND
THREE CIVILIANS WERE KILLED.
>> Woodruff: IN EASTERN UKRAINE,
GOVERNMENT FORCES MADE NEW GAINS
TODAY AGAINST PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS
HOLDING THE CITY OF DONETSK.
AT THE SAME TIME, THERE WERE NEW
WARNINGS THAT RUSSIA'S MILITARY
MIGHT INVADE, TO PROTECT THE
REBELS.
IN WARSAW, THE POLISH PRIME
MINISTER POINTED TO A RUSSIAN
BUILDUP, JUST ACROSS THE
UKRAINIAN BORDER.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE
REASONS TO BELIEVE, ACCORDING TO
INFORMATION I HAVE RECEIVED IN
THE LAST FEW HOURS, THAT THE
THREAT OF DIRECT RUSSIAN
INTERVENTION IS CERTAINLY
GREATER THAN IT WAS A FEW DAYS
AGO.
FOR THAT REASON, IT IS NOT RULED
OUT THAT THE UKRAINIAN CRISIS
COULD GROW MORE SERIOUS THAN IT
ALREADY IS.
>> Woodruff: U.S. AND "NATO"
OFFICIALS SAY THE RUSSIANS NOW
HAVE ABOUT 20,000 TROOPS MASSED
ALONG THE BORDER.
A NATO STATEMENT TODAY SUGGESTED
MOSCOW COULD USE THE PRETEXT OF
A HUMANITARIAN MISSION TO
INVADE.
>> Ifill: THE U.S. AND EUROPE
HAVE ALREADY IMPOSED SANCTIONS
ON RUSSIA, OVER ITS ACTIONS IN
TODAY, THE KREMLIN STRUCK BACK.
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
ANNOUNCED HIS GOVERNMENT WILL
TARGET AGRICULTURAL IMPORTS FROM
THE WEST.
THE RUSSIAN VETERINARY SERVICE
SAID ALL SUCH PRODUCTS FROM THE
UNITED STATES WILL BE BANNED
OUTRIGHT.
>> Woodruff: IN IRAQ, TWO CAR
BOMBS TORE THROUGH SHIITE
NEIGHBORHOODS IN BAGHDAD,
KILLING MORE THAN 50 PEOPLE.
MEANWHILE, TO THE NORTH, THE
GOVERNMENT REPORTED AN AIR
STRIKE KILLED 60 MILITANTS IN
MOSUL NOW HELD BY THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP.
AND, KURDISH FORCES LAUNCHED AN
OFFENSIVE AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS NEAR THE REGIONAL
CAPITAL OF IRBIL.
>> Ifill: THE DEATH TOLL FROM
THE WEEKEND EARTHQUAKE IN
SOUTHERN CHINA ROSE SHARPLY
OVERNIGHT TO AT LEAST 589.
RESCUE TEAMS FOUND MORE BODIES
AS THEY REACHED MOUNTAINOUS
FARMING VILLAGES THAT HAD NOT
YET BEEN SEARCHED.
IN ADDITION TO THE DEAD, MORE
THAN 2,400 PEOPLE WERE INJURED.
>> Woodruff: THE STATE OF HAWAII
BRACED TODAY FOR A ONE-TWO
HURRICANE PUNCH.
THE FIRST OF THE TWO STORMS
COULD STRIKE TOMORROW, WITH THE
SECOND TRAILING BY THREE OR FOUR
DAYS.
IN ADVANCE, PEOPLE IN HONOLULU
RUSHED TO STORES TO STOCK UP ON
FOOD AND POWER SUPPLIES.
OTHERS BATTENED DOWN BOATS
BEFORE HIGH WINDS AND STORM
SURGES HIT.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER VETERAN
REPUBLICAN LAWMAKER HAS TURNED
BACK A TEA PARTY CHALLENGE.
KANSAS SENATOR PAT ROBERTS WON
HIS PRIMARY YESTERDAY BY A
NARROW MARGIN.
MEANWHILE, IN MICHIGAN,
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN KERRY
BENTIVOLIO, A TEA PARTY ALLY,
LOST TO A CHALLENGER SUPPORTED
BY THE PARTY ESTABLISHMENT.
ANOTHER TEA PARTY-BACKED
CONGRESSMAN, JUSTIN AMASH, WON
RE-NOMINATION.
AND DEMOCRAT DEBBIE DINGELL WAS
NOMINATED TO SUCCEED HER
HUSBAND, CONGRESSMAN JOHN
DINGELL.
HE'S RETIRING AFTER A RECORD 58
YEARS IN THE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: SAME SEX MARRIAGE
LAWSUITS IN FOUR STATES WENT
BEFORE A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT
IN CINCINNATI TODAY.
A THREE-JUDGE PANEL HEARD
ARGUMENTS ON GAY MARRIAGE BANS
IN MICHIGAN AND KENTUCKY.
THE ISSUE IN OHIO DEALT WITH
RECOGNIZING SAME SEX UNIONS FROM
OTHER STATES.
AND, A TENNESSEE CASE MORE
NARROWLY FOCUSED ON THE RIGHTS
OF SAME-SEX COUPLES.
THE JUDGE'S RULINGS COULD BE
WEEKS AWAY.
>> Ifill: THERE'S WORD BANK OF
AMERICA AND THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT ARE NEARING A RECORD
SETTLEMENT OVER ALLEGED CONDUCT
OVER HOUSE MELTDOWN.
THE BANKS WILL PAY $16 BILLION
TO $17 BILLION, INVOLVING
ACTIONS BY TWO SUBSIDIARIES OF
THE MORTGAGE MARKET.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT IS EXPECTED
TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STREET
TODAY, THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL
AVERAGE GAINED NEARLY 14 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 16,443; THE NASDAQ
ROSE TWO POINTS TO CLOSE AT
4,355; AND THE S&P ADDED A
FRACTION TO FINISH AT 1,920.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
THE U.N. DECLARES EBOLA IS A
PUBLIC HEALTH OUTBREAK OF GLOBAL
CONCERN.
PROTECTING YOUR DATA AND
IDENTITY IN A VULNERABLE CYBER
WORLD.
UNLOCKING THE SECRETS OF A
COMET.
DETECTING EARTHQUAKES AND
ALERTING THE PUBLIC BEFORE THEY
HIT.
AND THE ONGOING REACH OF WORLD
WAR I.
>> Ifill: COMPUTER HACKING AND
THE BREACHES OF PRIVACY THAT
COME WITH THEM ARE BECOMING A
REGULAR AND UNWELCOME FEATURE OF
OUR WIRED WORLD.
NOW, THE NEW YORK TIMES AND A
SECURITY FIRM BASED IN THE
MIDWEST ARE REPORTING A MASSIVE
ONE THAT INCLUDES THE COLLECTION
OF MORE THAN A BILLION USERNAME
AND PASSWORD COMBINATIONS AND
MORE THAN 500 MILLION E-MAIL
ADDRESSES.
WHAT'S MORE, THE PERPETRATORS
APPEAR TO BE A SHADOWY RUSSIAN
CRIME RING.
DETAILS, INCLUDING THE NAMES OF
THE VICTIMS, ARE HARD TO COME
BY.
BUT THE NEWS HAS RAISED EYEBROWS
AROUND THE WORLD.
SO HOW SERIOUS IS IT?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO DMITRI
ALPEROVITCH, CO FOUNDER AND
CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER OF
CROWDSTRIKE, A WEB SECURITY
FIRM.
MR. ALPEROVITCH, IN CONTEXT OF
ALL THE OTHER BREACHES IN THE
PAST YEAR, SAY, RELATIVE TO
THOSE, HOW BIG IS THIS?
>> WELL, THE NUMBER IS CERTAINLY
STRIKING.
1.2 BILLION CREDENTIALS IS A
LOT.
IN THE PAST, WIE SEEN BIG
BREACHES THAT NUMBERED IN THE
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS BUT THIS IS
CERTAINLY THE BIGGEST ONE THAT I
CAN REMEMBER.
>> Woodruff: ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT A TARGETED ATTACK IN WHICH
THEY ARE TRYING TO TAKE DOWN
EITHER INDIVIDUALS OR
CORPORATIONS OR WAS THIS A
SWEEP?
>> NOT ALL THE DETAILS ARE KNOWN
YET BUT WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT
THESE CRIMINALS DID AGGREGATE A
LOT OF STOLEN DATA FROM OTHER
CYBERCRIMINALS AND THAT PROBABLY
AMPLIFIED SOME OF THESE NUMBERS.
THEY WERE ALSO ABLE TO HACK INTO
A NUMBER OF WEB SITES AND STEAL
CREDENTIALS PEOPLE WERE USING TO
LOG IN AS WEB SITES.
>> Woodruff: WHEN WE SAY
SHADOWY RUSSIAN CRIME RING, WHO
ARE THE HACKERS?
>> THEY HAVE NOT BEEN PUBLICLY
IDENTIFIED.
THEY HAVE BEEN CALLED
CYBERTHIEVES, CYBERWAR -- IN
RUSSIAN, "WAR" MEANS THIEF --
AND WE DON'T KNOW A LOT ABOUT
THEM BUT WE KNOW A LARGE RING OF
CYBERCRIMINALS OUT OF RUSSIA
FORMING CYBERCRIMINAL
SYNDICATES.
THEY HAVE BANKING DETAILS,
CREDIT CART NUMBERS AND IT'S A
BOOMING BUSINESS THERE.
>> Woodruff: LESTED TALK ABOUT
THE SECURITY FIRM THAT UNCOVERED
THIS AND PROVIDED THE
INFORMATION TO THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" WHO AUTHENTICATED IT TO A
THIRD PARTY.
THERE HAVE BEEN QUESTIONS RAISED
AMONG TECH REPORTS WHETHER THE
TIMING IS SUSPICIOUS, JUST AS
TECH PEOPLE ARE MEETING IN
LAS VEGAS FOR A BIG CONFERENCE
WHICH YOU ARE THERE ACTUALLY.
>> I AM, INDEED.
THIS IS NOT UNUSUAL, THAT
SECURITY RELEASES THESE.
IT IS USUALLY DONE TO GET MORE
PUBLICITY AROUND THIS TIME AND
IS NOT SOMETHING THAT IS ALL
THAT UNUSUAL.
>> Woodruff: AT THE ROOT OF
THIS, I AM TOLD, I READ, IS
SOMETHING CALLED A BOTNET.
WHAT IS A BOTNET?
>> A BOTNET IS ESSENTIALLY A
NETWORK OF COMPROMISED M MACHIN.
WHEN YOU GET A SUSPICIOUS EMAIL,
YOU CLICK ON IT AND YOUR EMAIL
IS INFECTED BY A CYBERCRIMINAL,
YOUR MACHINE WILL CONNECT TO A
SERVER THEY CONTROL AND WHEN YOU
MULTIPLY IN BY MILLIONS AROUND
THE WORLD, YOU CREATE A NETWORK
OF MACHINES THE CYBERCRIMINALS
HAVE COMPLETE CONTROL OVER.
THEY CAN STEAL ANY TYPE OF FILE
FROM THE SYSTEM OR MONITOR THE
SYSTEM ON AN ONGOING BASIS.
AND ANYTIME YOU GO TO YOUR
ONLINE BANKING WEB SITE, THEY
CAN USE YOUR PASSWORD AND SEND
IT TO THE CYBERCRIMINAL.
>> Woodruff: DO WE KNOW THAT
HAPPENED IN THIS CASE?
>> THE FIRM IS REPORTING SOME OF
THE CREDENTIALS WERE HARVESTED
FROM BOTNETS, WHICH IS A COMMON
THING WE SEE FROM
CYBERCRIMINALS.
THAT WON'T GET YOU 1.2 BILLION
CREDENTIALS.
FOR THEM TO GET TO THOSE TYPES
OF NUMBERS, THEY HAVE TO GO TO
THE SOURCE OF DATA WHICH IS
WEB SITES TO AGGREGATE THIS
INFORMATION.
SO WE'VE HEARD OF INDENTS IN THE
PAST, ADOBE COMPROMISED A YEAR
AGO, "FORBES" MAGAZINE EARLIER
THIS YEAR WHERE THE CRIMINALS
WERE ABLE TO GET INTO THE
WEB SITES OF THESE COMPANIES AND
STEAL ALL THE CREDENTIALS, ALL
THE USER NAMES AND PASSWORDS
USED FOR LOGINS TO THOSE SITES.
>> Woodruff: AND CAUSED THE
INDIVIDUALS DAMAGE?
DO WE KNOW IF MONEY WAS DRAINED
FROM BANK ACCOUNTS?
DO WE KNOW WHETHER THIS IS
LUCRATIVE TO AMASS ALL THE
INFORMATION WHICH IS BASICALLY
WHAT SOUNDS LIKE THESE HACKERS
ARE DOING?
>> THESE CREDENTIALS ARE NOT TO
THE BANKING SITES.
MOST BANKING SITES ARE VERY
SECURE, UNLESS YOU'RE COLLECTING
IT FROM THE BOTNET, AS I
MENTIONED BEFORE.
WHAT IS A COMMON PROBLEM IS
PEOPLE REUSE PASSWORDS.
SO THE SAME USER NAME AND
PASSWORD YOU MAY SIGN UP TO A
MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTION IS USE
FORD A BANKING SITE WHICH IS A
PROBLEM BECAUSE IF ONE OF THE
SITES GETS USED, YOU VULNERABLE
I'VE WROTE ELSE.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS SUPPOSED
TO BE BILLIONS, ARE WE TALKING
FROM DIFFERENT WEB SITES OR ONE
BIG BREACH?
>> REPORTEDLY, IT INCLUDES DATA
FROM OVER 400,000 SITES BUT
THERE ARE PROBABLY VERY BEING
BREACHES IN THERE THAT AMPLIFY
THE NUMBERS.
>> Woodruff: THE REAL QUESTION
FOR US WHO ARE RUSHING TO OUR
DESKS TO CHANGE OUR PASSWORDS
AGAIN, IS THIS THE RISK OF
LIVING IN A WIRED WORLD?
DO WE HAVE TO GET USED TO THIS
AND BUILD INTO OUR PSYCHE THAT
ONCE A MONTH WE'LL HEAR ABOUT
ANOTHER BIG HACK?
>> UNFORTUNATELY, IT IS.
ONCE MONTH -- WE WOULD BE LUCKY
IF WE HEARD AT THAT FRE FREQUEN.
WE RECOMMEND USING A DIFFERENT
PASSWORD FOR EVERY SITE AND USE
A PASSWORD MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TO
TRACK THE SITES.
CREATE LONG AND RANDAL
PASSWORDS, STORE THEM IN A
SECURE PROGRAM AND YOU CAN
EASILY ACCESS THAT PASSWORD WHEN
USED TO LOG INTO THAT SITE AND
WHEN THERE'S COMPROMISE THE
COMPROMISE WILL BE ISOLATED JUST
TO THE SITE HACKED.
>> Woodruff: IN YOUR
EXPERIENCE, DO PEOPLE TAKE THAT
ADVICE?
>> MOST DON'T, BUT IT'S NOT THAT
HARD.
TAKES A LITTLE EFFORT AND YOU
WILL BE A LOT MORE SECURE AS A
RESULT.
>> Woodruff: DIMITRI
ALPEROVITCH, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IT'S TAKEN TEN
YEARS AND A JOURNEY OF FOUR
BILLION MILES, BUT TODAY, A
SPACECRAFT BEGAN ORBITING A
COMET.
A FIRST IN SPACE HISTORY.
AND A MISSION THAT MAY TELL US
SOMETHING ABOUT THE ORIGINS OF
LIFE ITSELF.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION, WHICH WAS RECORDED
AS PART OF A GOOGLE HANGOUT
EARLIER TODAY.
>> Reporter: THE ROSETTA
SPACECRAFT WAS LAUNCHED YEARS
AGO BY THE EUROPEAN SPACE
AGENCY.
ALONG THE WAY, ITS JOURNEY HAS
TAKEN IT AROUND THE SUN FIVE
TIMES.
AND ITS NOW 250 MILLION MILES
FROM EARTH.
SEND A PROBE THAT WILL LAND ON
THE COMET.
THE FIRST IMAGES WERE SENT BACK
TODAY.
MARK McCAUGHREAN OF THE SENIOR
SCIENCE ADVISORY WITH THE
EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY JOINS ME
NOW.
WHY DO WE WANT TO SEND A
SATELLITE SO CLOSE TO A COMET?
>> COMETS HAVE INFORMATION AT
THE ORIGIN OF OUR SOLAR SYSTEM.
BY RUMMAGING THROUGH THE GARBAGE
PILE, WE CAN START TO LEARN
ABOUT HOW OUR SOLAR SYSTEM IS
BUILT BUT NOT ONLY THAT, BECAUSE
COMETS PERHAPS HOLD THE ANSWERS
TO A LONG MYSTERIOUS QUESTION
THAT BAFFLED PEOPLE FOR A LONG
TIME.
IF THE EARTH WAS REALLY HOT WHEN
IT WAS FIRST MADE, WHICH IT WAS,
HOW DID WATER STAY ON THE
PLANET?
WOULD IT HAVE BOILED OFF?
MAYBE IT CAME LATER OR MAYBE
FROM A COMET.
THE COFFEE YOU'RE DRINKING THIS
MORNING, MAYBE IT CAME FROM A
COMET.
COMETS ARE REALLY DARK.
THEY'RE NOT SNOWBALLS, THEY'RE
VERY, VERY BLACK AND THEY'VE GOT
STUFF IN THEM WHICH IS DUST BUT
ALSO ORGANIC COMPLEX MOLECULES
INCLUDING AMINO ACIDS, THE
BUILDINGS BLOCKS OF LIFE.
SO COMETS COULD HAVE ALSO SEEDED
THE EARTH WITH THE RAW MATERIALS
FOR MAKING WHO WE ARE TODAY.
SO THERE'S THE LOOP.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'VE GOTTEN
CLOSE TO COMETS BEFORE, WHY DO
WE NEED TO ORBIT ONE?
>> ALL OTHERS HAVE BEEN FLY-BYS.
IT'S EASY TO FLY PAST A COMET
QUICKLY INSTEAD OF WORK OUR WAY
AROUND THE SOLAR SYSTEM USING
THE OTHER PLANETS, USING EARTH
AND MARS TO GET OUR TRAJECTORY
AND SLOW DOWN TO GET TO THE
RIGHT SPEED TO RENDEZVOUS.
SO WE'VE LEARNED THINGS ABILITY
COMETS BUT JUST A FEW MINUTES AT
THE TIME.
THIS TIME WE WATCH AS IT COMES
INTO THE SOLAR SYSTEM, HEATS UP,
EVOLVES, CHANGES, GETS DYNAMIC.
THERE WILL BE SO MANY UNEXPECTED
SURPRISES, WE'LL BE ABLE TO THEN
USE THAT TO LINK WHAT WE SEE
FROM THE COMET CLOSE UP TO WHAT
WE SEE FROM COMETS FROM
DISTANCES AND THIS IS EXACTLY
WHAT THE NAME SUGGESTS, A
"ROSETTA" STONE FOR
UNDERSTANDING COMETS IN GENERAL
CLOSE UP.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'RE TALKING
A TEN-YEAR-LONG PROJECT, SIGN
SCIENTISTS AND EQUIPMENT FROM
ALL OVER.
>> IN SOME WAYS ACTUALLY A LOT
LONGER THAN THAT BECAUSE IN
1986, THE EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY
DID THE FIRST EVER FL FLY-BY OFE
COMET HALLY IN 1986.
THEN FLYING BY IN A FEW SECONDS
AND SEEING A FEW MINUTES OF DATA
IS GOOD.
BUT WHAT WOULD IT BE LIKE TO GO
AND STAY THERE FOR ABOUT A FULL
YEAR AND MAYBE LAND?
BY 1993 THE MISSION HAD BEEN
IMPROVED.
IT TOOK TEN YEARS TO BUILD IT.
THEN IT HAD TO LAUNCH.
WE HAD A YEAR'S DELAY -- NOT ON
OUR SIDE, THE MISSION WAS READY,
BUT ONE OF THE ROCKETS EXPLODED
AND WE HAD TO REVISIT AND WORK
OUT WHAT WAS WRONG WITH THAT.
WE LOST THE FIRST COMET WE WERE
SUPPOSED TO BE GOING TO, IT
LOOPED OFF, WE HAD TO PICK
ANOTHER ONE QUICKLY, AND NOW WE
HAVE BEEN IN SPACE FOR TEN
YEARS.
WHAT I'M SAYING, BEEN IN THE
CARS TEN YEARS, THE KIDS IN THE
BACK ARE A BIT IRRITATED, ARE WE
THERE YET?
WE'RE THERE NOW, HAVEN'T GOTTEN
OUT OF THE CAR, LOOKING OUT THE
WINDOW AND THERE'S DISNEYLAND
WAITING FOR US.
WHAT AN AMAZING PLACE TO LAND,
WE COULDN'T HAVE WISHED FOR
BETTER.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE GOING
TO TRY TO LAND ON THE COMET,
I'VE EVEN HEARD THE WORD
"HARPOONED."
>> YES, YOU MIGHT THINK WE WOULD
TAKE OFF TODAY AND HAVE A GLASS
OF CHAMPAGNE BUT WE CAN'T RELAX.
WE'RE AT A GOLDILOCKS TIME.
THE COMET IS MOVING IN FROM
BEYOND JUPITER.
IT'S COLD, NOT MUCH SUNLIGHT, WE
COULDN'T POWER THE SPACECRAFT
OUT THERE.
BUT COMING IN, WE HAVE POWER
ENOUGH TO POWER THE SPACECRAFT.
BUT THE COMET IS NOT ACTIVE YET.
IT WILL BE BECOMING ACTIVE SOON.
WE HAVE TILL NOVEMBER TO PICK A
SITE AND GET THE THING ON THE
SURFACE, SO IT WILL BE FRANTIC.
REALLY EXCITING.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT HAPPENS
TO THE OBJECT AFTER IT LANDS IN
I HEARD THEY'RE BOTH HURDLING
TOWARD THE SUN.
>> WE HAVE THE PICTURES GOING SO
CLOSE TO THE SUN THEY DON'T
BREAK UP AND COME BACK OUT
AGAIN.
THE COMET LAST YEAR WAS ONE SUCH
OBJECT.
THIS COMET NEVER COMES AS CLOSE
TO THE SUN AS THE EARTH.
IT ENDS UP, THE CLOSEST TO THE
SUN, 184 KILOMETERS OUT, SO
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HERE AND MARS.
IT WILL HAVE A TAIL AND WE'LL
LEARN A LOT BUT IT'S NEVER IN
SUCH DANGER OF BEING SO BAD
WE'LL RISK THE MISSION.
SOME WANT TO KNOW WHERE THEY CAN
SEE IT.
YOU WON'T SEE WIT THE NAKED EYE.
WE'LL HAVE A RINGSIDE SEAT AND
SHOW YOU CLOSE UP.
>> Sreenivasan: MARK
McCAUGHREAN FROM THE EUROPEAN
SPACE AGENCY, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: NEXT, A SCIENCE REPORT
ON A MAJOR NEW EFFORT TO GIVE
CALIFORNIA COMMUNITIES MORE
WARNING ABOUT AN IMPENDING
EARTHQUAKE.
A QUAKE IN CHINA'S SOUTHWESTERN
YUNAN PROVINCE EARLIER THIS WEEK
PROVIDED A SOBERING REMINDER OF
THE DEADLY TOLL.
UNLIKE MOST NATURAL DISASTERS,
EARTHQUAKES USUALLY HIT  WITHOUT
WARNING.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CAT WISE HAS A
STORY ON PLAN TO GIVE RESIDENTS
IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA A HEADS-
UP.
MANY MEXICO, WHEN AN
EARTHQUAKE IS ABOUT TO HIT, MANY
PEOPLE HEAR THIS
(SIREN)
AND IN JAPAN, WHERE THOUSANDS OF
SEISMIC CENTERS ARE INSTALLED
AROUND THE COUNTRY, THIS IS WHAT
SOME TV VIEWERS SAW IN 2011,
RIGHT BEFORE THEIR LARGE QUAKE
HIT.
BUT IN LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA,
RESIDENTS HAVE HAD NO WARNING
SYSTEM, EVEN THOUGH THE AREA,
HOME TO THE SECOND BUSIEST
CONTAINER PORT IN THE COUNTRY,
OIL REFINERY AND A MAJOR AIRPORT
SITS ON TOP OF ONE OF THE MOST
SEISMICALLY ACTIVE REGIONS IN
THE WORLD.
IN 1933, A 6.4 MAGNITUDE
EARTHQUAKE HIT LONG BEACH,
CAUSING WIDESPREAD DISTRUCKS AND
KILLING 115 PEOPLE.
NEW BUILDING STANDARDS WERE
PASSED.
LUCY JONES IS A SCIENCE ADVISOR
FOR RISK REDUCTION IN THE USGS.
>> 6,000 DIED IN JAPAN, MEXICO
HAD 6,000 DIE, CHINA HAD 80,000
DIE.
WHAT WE'RE HOPING TO BE IS THE
FIRST COUNTRY TO BRING IT IN
WITHOUT KILLING 1,000 PEOPLE
FIRST.
(ALARM SOUNDING)
>> Reporter: THE SYSTEM CALLED
SHAKE ALERT IS BEING TESTED IN A
HANDFUL OF SITES AROUND
CALIFORNIA INCLUDING LONG BEACH.
>> LOOKS LIKE THIS EARTHQUAKE IS
142 --
>> Reporter: ON A RECENT
AFTERNOON, A LOUD WARNING AND A
COUNTDOWN SOUNDED IN THE CITY'S
EMERGENCY COMMAND CENTER WHEN A
SMALL QUAKE HIT TO THE NORTH.
>> 67 SECONDS OF TOTAL WARNING.
>> Reporter: REGGIE HARRISON
IS LONG BEACH'S DEPUTY CITY
MANAGER IN CHARGE OF DISASTER
PREPAREDNESS.
>> IF WE GET A WARNING, SECONDS
OR TENS OF SECONDS OF WARNING,
WE HAVE TO GIVE INFORMATION TO
THE GAS DEPARTMENT WHERE THEY
TAKE AN OPPORTUNITY TO TURN OFF
GAS, AN OPPORTUNITY TO DROP
COVER AND HOLD OR GIVING THE
CRANE OPERATOR AT THE PORT AN
OPPORTUNITY TO GET DOWN FROM THE
CRANE.
>> Reporter: SHAKE ALERT IS
BEING DEVELOPED BY A TEAM OF
SCIENTISTS FROM THE USGS AND
SEVERAL WEST COAST UNIVERSITIES
INCLUDING HERE AT THE CALIFORNIA
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY.
>> SO WHAT WE HAVE HERE IS WHAT
WE TYPICALLY HAVE INSTALLED IN
THE FIELD.
>> Reporter: ELIZABETH COCHRAN
IS ONE OF THOSE WORKING ON THE
NEW SYSTEM AT USGS.
>> WE HAVE ABOUT 500 SENSORS
THROUGHOUT THE STATE WHICH ARE
CONTRIBUTING DATA AND THAT
NUMBER CONTINUES TO GROW AS WE
INSTALL NEW SENSORS OR UPGRADE
SENSORS.
>> Reporter: THE SENSORS SEND
BACK DATA IN REALTIME TO THE
SERVERS ON CAMPUS WHICH USE
SOPHISTICATED ALGORITHMS TO
ANALYZE THE INFORMATION IN LESS
THAN A SECOND AND SEND OUT
ALERTS.
THOSE ALERTS WHICH RANGE FROM A
FEW SECONDS TO A MINUTE OR MORE
DEPENDING ON THE DISTANCE FROM
THE EPICENTER WILL GO OUT OVER
CELL PHONES, RADIOS, TV AND
OTHER COMMUNICATIONS.
COMMUNICATIONS.
EARTHQUAKES SEND OUT TWO
DOWNTOWN SEISMIC WAVES.
P WAVES OR PRIMARY WAVES COME
FIRST.
THEY TRAVEL FASTER BUT ARE
GENERALLY SMALL AND HARDER TO
FEEL.
S WAVES ARE SECONDARY AND SLOWER
BUT CAUSE MORE DAMAGE.
THAT LAG TIME IS IMPORTANT, SAYS
COCHRAN.
>> WE CAN ACTUALLY MEASURE THE P
WAVES WHICH AREN'T VERY DAMAGING
AND PREDICT HOW BIG THE
EARTHQUAKE IS GOING TO BE AND
HOMEFULLY GET THE WARNING OUT
BEFORE THE S WAVES COME IN.
>> Reporter: SHE SHOWED US HOW
THE WARNING SYSTEM WOULD WORK
DURING A HYPOTHETICAL 7.8
EARTHQUAKE IN SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
>> OUR SENSORS WILL DETECT THAT
EARTHQUAKE.
YOU CAN SEE HERE THE YELLOW OR E
THE P WAVES AND THE SECOND WAVE
IS THE S WAVE AND THAT'S WHERE
WE GET THE STRONG SHAKING.
LOS ANGELES WOULD GET ABOUT 60
SECONDS OF WARNING.
>> Reporter: RUSS OLIVER IS
ONE OF THE DOZEN OR SO SEISMIC
ENGINEERS AROUND THE STATE WHO
INSTALL AND MAINTAIN A LARGE
NETWORK OF SENSORS.
ON THE AFTERNOON WE CAUGHT UP
WITH OLIVER, HE WAS CHECKING ON
SENSORS TEN FEET UNDERGROUND IN
A CONCRETE BUNKER NEAR A ROSE
BOWL IN PASADENA.
THE SOPHISTICATED EQUIPMENT IN
THIS LOCATION COSTS ABOUT
$30,000.
>> THE SENSORS ARE VERY
SENSITIVE.
IMAGINE A FOOTBALL FIELD AND
LIFT IT UP ON ONE END, SLIDE A
HUMAN HAIR UNDERNEATH IT AND THE
SENSORS COULD DETECT THAT LIFT.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE PUBLIC
EARLY WARNING SYSTEM WILL BE NEW
FOR MOST RESIDENTS ONCE IT'S
ROLLED OUT, SOME PRIVATE
COMPANIES LIKE ONE CALLED
SEISMIC WARNING SYSTEMS ALREADY
USE DIFFERENT PROPRIOR TEAR
TECHNOLOGY TO PROVIDE ALERTS FOR
PAYING CLIENTS.
SENSORS INSTALLED DIRECTLY ON
THE BUILDINGS REDUCE ALERT
TIMES, THE COST RANGE FROM
$1,200 TO $2,500 PER CLIENT A
YEAR.
BUT USGS'S LUCY JONES FEELS IT'S
IMPORTANT ALSO FOR THE
GOVERNMENT TO MAKE INVESTMENTS
TO THE PUBLIC SYSTEM BEING
CREATED.
>> THE REALITY IS IT'S A BENEFIT
FOR ALL OF US, SOMETHING LIKE 40
STATES HAVE SOME EARTHQUAKE
RISK.
WE'RE GOING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
DO IT HERE BECAUSE SO MUCH MORE
IS AT STAKE BUT ONCE WE DO IT
IT'S SOMETHING WE CAN GIVE TO
EVERYONE.
>> Reporter: SO FAR THE
SYSTEM'S ONLY BEEN PARTIALLY
FUND BID KONG AND IN CALIFORNIA
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN SIGNED A
BILL SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF
THE SYSTEM BUT STIPULATED THAT
NO GENERAL STATE FUNDS COULD BE
USED.
MARK IS THE DIRECTOR OF THE
GOVERNOR V GOVERNOR'S OFFICE OF
EMERGENCY SERVICES.
>> GOVERNMENT WILL PROVIDE A
FUNDING STREAM BUT NOT ALL THE
FUNDING.
WE'RE LOOKING AT IT IN A MORE
INNO VAIFLT WAY, AN OUTSIDE THE
BOX THINKING TO INCORPORATE OUR
PARTNERS IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR.
>> Reporter: IN LONG BEACH,
DEPUTY CITY MANAGER REGGIE
HARRISON DOESN'T CARE HOW THE
SYSTEM IS FUNDING, HE'S JUST
ANXIOUS TO GET IT IMPLEMENTED IN
HIS COMMUNITY.
>> IT CAN LITERALLY SAVE LIVES,
THIS TECHNOLOGY.
SECONDS REALLY DO COUNT IN THIS
INDUSTRY AND ESPECIALLY WITH AN
EARTHQUAKE.
>> Reporter: OFFICIALS SAY
EVEN IF FUNDING IS COMING
THROUGH SOON, IT WILL BE SEVERAL
YEARS BEFORE CALIFORNIA
RESIDENTS ARE LIKELY TO HEAR
THIS --
(ALARM)
-- BEFORE AN EARTHQUAKE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, AN UPDATE ON
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
TODAY RAISED THE NUMBER OF DEAD
AND CALLED FOR DISCUSSIONS ON
USING EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS.
EVERY DAY THERE ARE MORE VICTIMS
OF THE EBOLA OUTBREAK, AND MORE
BURIALS.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
NOW SAYS THE DEATH TOLL REACHED
932 BY MONDAY.
ALMOST ALL HAD BEEN IN THREE
COUNTRIES, GUINEA-- WHERE THE
OUTBREAK BEGAN-- LIBERIA, AND
SIERRA LEONE.
BUT, THE NEW NUMBER INCLUDES A
MAN WHO DIED IN NIGERIA AFTER
TRAVELING FROM LIBERIA.
SINCE MONDAY, NIGERIAN HEALTH
OFFICIALS REPORT A NURSE WHO
TREATED THAT PATIENT HAS DIED.
THE AIRPORT IN LAGOS, NIGERIA'S
LARGEST CITY, IS NOW ON HIGH
ALERT, SCREENING PASSENGERS FOR
BODY TEMPERATURE AND OTHER
SYMPTOMS AS THEY ARRIVE.
>> WE HAVE A MEDICAL TEAM FROM
THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH UNDER THE
PORT SERVICES THAT INSPECTS
THEIR MEDICAL HISTORY AND ALSO
HAVE SOME EQUIPMENT WHERE THEY
CHECK WITHOUT HAVING PERSONAL
CONTACT AND ALL THAT IS DONE ON
ARRIVAL EVEN BEFORE THE
IMMIGRATION.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE,
OFFICIALS IN SIERRA LEONE AND
LIBERIA HAVE DEPLOYED HUNDREDS
OF SOLDIERS AND POLICE TO
QUARANTINE REMOTE VILLAGES AND
MEDICAL CENTERS IN EBOLA HOT
SPOTS.
THE LEADERS OF THOSE TWO
COUNTRIES MISSED THIS WEEK'S
AFRICA SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON, TO
DEAL WITH THE CRISIS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOOK NOTE OF
THEIR STRUGGLE TODAY.
>> THE UNITED STATES AND OUR
INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS WILL
CONTINUE TO DO WHATEVER WE CAN
TO HELP OUR AFRICAN PARTNERS
RESPOND TO THIS CRISIS, AND TO
STAND WITH THE PEOPLE OF GUINEA,
LIBERIA AND SIERRA LEONE.
IN THEIR HISTORIES, THEY'VE
OVERCOME GREAT CHALLENGES, AND
THEY'RE DRAWING ON THAT SAME
SPIRIT OF STRENGTH AND
RESILIENCE TODAY.
>> Woodruff: TWO AMERICANS WHO
HELPED TREAT EBOLA PATIENTS IN
LIBERIA AND WERE THEMSELVES
INFECTED ARE NOW BEING TREATED
IN ATLANTA.
THEY'VE RECEIVED AN EXPERIMENTAL
DRUG Z-MAPP THAT HAD NEVER BEEN
TESTED ON HUMANS.
THE DRUG IS EXTREMELY LIMITED IN
SUPPLY.
TODAY THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION ANNOUNCED IT'S
CONVENING A MEDICAL PANEL NEXT
WEEK TO CONSIDER THE ETHICS OF
MAKING Z-MAPP MORE WIDELY
AVAILABLE.
A LATE-BREAKING PIECE OF
INFORMATION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS ASKED THIS
AFTERNOON AS HE MET WITH THE
AFRICAN LEADERS WHO ARE HERE
MEETING AT A SUMMIT IN
WASHINGTON, HE WAS ASKED ABOUT
THAT DRUG MADE AVAILABLE TO THE
TWO AMERICAN HEALTHCARE WORKERS.
HE SAID "ALL THE INFORMATION IS
NOT IN YET ON THE NEW EBOLA
DRUG."
HE SAID "WE NEED TO LET THE
SCIENCE GUIDE US."
HAVING SAID THAT, REPORTS SAY
THERE ARE ONLY A HANDFUL OF
COURSES OF TREATMENT WITH THE
EXPERIMENTAL DRUG NOW.
ITS USE IS PROMPTING QUESTIONS
OF WHO SHOULD GET ACCESS AND
UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES.
WE HAVE TWO EXPERTS.
ROBERT GARRY,
WE HEAR FROM TWO EXPERTS ABOUT
THIS.
ROBERT GARRY IS A VIROLOGIST AND
A PROFESSOR AT THE TULANE
UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE.
AND, LAURIE GARRETT IS A SENIOR
FELLOW FOR GLOBAL HEALTH AT THE
COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS.
WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT ANY DRUG
AVAILABLE AT THIS POINT TO TREAT
EBOLA?
>> ALMOST NONE.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THEY WORK OR
ARE SAFE.
THERE HAVE BEEN NOT BEEN
CLINICAL TRIALS.
WE KNOW ONE INDIVIDUAL, AN
AMERICAN, RECEIVED THIS ZMapp
DRUG AND SEEMS TO HAVE HAD A
RECOVERY.
DID HE HAVE A RECOVERY BECAUSE
HE'S PART OF THE LUCKY 30% OF
THE PEOPLE WHO CONTRACTED EBOLA
IN THE CURRENT OUTBREAK WHO
SURVIVED THE DISEASE OR DID HE
MAKE IT THROUGH BECAUSE THE DRUG
WORKED?
WE DON'T KNOW AND UNTIL YOU HAVE
SOMETHING MORE THAN ONE PERSON,
YOU DON'T HAVE CLINICAL
EVIDENCE.
>> Woodruff: DR. GARRY, WHAT
IS YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF THE
DRUG AND ITS COMFORT LEVEL OF IT
BEING GIVEN TO THE ONE OR TWO
AMERICAN HEALTHCARE WORKERS.
>> I AM VERY COMFORTABLE HAVING
THE AMERICANS BEING GIVEN THE
TREATMENT.
THEY'RE BOTH HEALTHCARE WORKERS
AND KNEW THE RISKS OF TAKING THE
DRUG SO THEY WERE FULLY INFORMED
OF THE POSSIBLE OUTCOMES.
AS AMERICANS, WE NEED TO DO ALL
WE CAN TO PROTECT PEOPLE THAT GO
TO COUNTRIES WHERE VERY SERIOUS
DISEASE LIKE THIS IS OCCURRING
AND DO ALL WE CAN TO PROTECT
THEM IF THEY SHOULD BE
UNFORTUNATE ENOUGH TO GET
INFECTED.
SO THIS DRUG, ZMapp, HAS SHOWN
VERY GOOD PROMISE IN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS, THESE
ANTIBODIES ARE VERY PROMISING
DRUGS, AT THE VERY TOP OF THE
LIST FOR HEMORRHAGIC FEVERS LIKE
EBOLA.
>> Woodruff: DOES THAT MEAN IT
WOULD BE MORE WIDELY DISTRIBUTED
AT THIS POINT, DR. GARRY?
>> WHEN I CAME BACK FROM SIERRA
LEONE ABOUT A MONTH AGO, I
REALIZED THE OUTBREAK HAD THE
POTENTIAL UNLIKE ANY OTHER TO
SPREAD WIDER AND INIF WE COULD
MORE PEOPLE BECAUSE IT WAS IN
WEST AFRICA INSTEAD OF CENTRAL
AFRICA.
THE PEOPLE THERE ARE MORE MOBILE
AND UNFORTUNATELY THAT KIM THE
PASS.
MY FIRST CONCERN WHEN I CAME WAS
ABOUT SOME OF MY COLLEAGUES I
HAD BEEN WORKING WITH FOR ABOUT
TEN YEARS AND I THOUGHT, WELL,
MAYBE WE NEED TO START TO PULL
OUT SOME OF THE STOPS AND GET
THEM SOME OF THESE EITHER
EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENTS LIKE
THE ZMapp OR PERHAPS EVEN
BETTER SOME OF THE VACCINES THAT
HAVE SHOWN SUCH GREAT PROMISE IN
MONKEYS AND OTHER TRIALS.
SO, UNFORTUNATELY, WHAT I WAS
FACED WITH WAS RESISTANCE,
SAYING YOU CAN'T DO EXPERIMENTS
DURING AN OUTBREAK, AND THAT
DIDN'T COME TO PASS.
UNFORTUNATELY, SOME OF MY DEAR
COLLEAGUES LOST THEIR BATTLE TO
EBOLA VIRUS.
>> Woodruff: WHERE WAS THE
RESISTANCE COMING FROM?
>> MANY PEOPLE SAY YOU SHOULDN'T
DO RESEARCH DURING AN OUTBREAK
BUT I BELIEVE THIS IS TOTALLY
DIFFERENT.
IT'S NOT IN CENTRAL AFRICA.
IT'S NOT SO EASY TO GET A RING
AROUND THE VILLAGES SO ISOLATED,
IT'S IN WEST AFRICA WHERE THE
POPULATION IS MORE DENSE.
THIS OUTBREAK WILL GO ON FOR A
LONGER PERIOD OF TIME.
SO WE NEED TO THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX OF THINKING THAT WE CAN'T DO
A RESEARCH OR A TRIAL.
WE NEED TO GET THE APPROVALS IN
PLACE AND THINK ABOUT DOING
THINGS THAT WILL BE NECESSARY TO
PROTECT AMERICANS AND ALSO TO
HELP THE AFRICANS.
>> Woodruff: LAURIE GARRETT,
LISTENS TO ALL THIS, WHAT OTHER
CONSIDERATIONS THAT SHOULD BE
PART OF THIS CONVERSATION IF
IT'S DECIDED, HOW, WHEN, HOW,
WHAT MEDICATIONS ARE MADE
AVAILABLE AND TO WHOM?
>> I THINK WE'RE IN AN
UNBELIEVABLY DIFFICULT MESS
HERE.
THERE'S NO EASY ANSWER, JUDY.
WE HAVE A POPULATION WHO
DEMONSTRATED THEY DON'T TRUST
THE GOVERNMENT, THEY DON'T TRUST
POLICE, THEY DON'T EVEN TRUST
THE FOLKS AT THE NEXT VILLAGE OR
THE LOCAL HEALTHCARE WORKERS.
HEALTHCARE WORKERS HAVE COME
UNDER PHYSICAL ATTACK.
PART OF THE REASON WE CAN'T
CONTROL THIS EPIDEMIC IS BECAUSE
PEOPLE ARE NOT COMPLYING WITH
QUARANTINES, THEY ARE NOT
COMPLYING WITH BURIAL PROCEDURES
MEANT TO LIMIT EXPOSURE TO
BODILY FLUIDS AND, IN GENERICS
THEY ARE HIGHLY ESPECIALLY OF
EVERYTHING THAT'S GOING ON.
SO, NOW, IF YOU START TO
INTRODUCE A PILL, AN INJECTION,
WHATEVER IT MAY BE AND SAY WE
WITH'RE NOT SURE BUT WE THINK
THIS MIGHT BE HELPFUL, YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE AN
EXTRAORDINARY EFFORT TO
COMMUNICATE THAT RISK TO MAKE IT
UNDERSTOOD WHAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT OR YOU COULD HAVE A REALLY
VIOLENT REACTION AGAINST EITHER
SAYING, YOU KNOW, THOSE WHITE
DOCTORS FROM SOMEONE ELSE PUT A
PILL IN MY RELATIVE'S MOUTH AND
THAT'S WHAT KILLED THEM OR,
CONVERSELY, SAYING THEY'RE
HOARDING THE PILLS, AND THE
PILLS WILL SAVE YOU AND OUR
VILLAGE ISN'T GETTING THEM AS
FAST AS THIS OTHER VILLAGE.
THIS ISN'T LIKE ROLLING OUT AN
EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE IN
BETHESDA, MARYLAND, THIS IS
POTENTIAL CHAOS.
POTENTIALLY, IF NOT DONE
CAREFULLY, YOU COULD BE
WORSENING THE SITUATION.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT AT THE POINT OF
DISTRIBUTION, OBVIOUSLY, THE
DIFFICULTY OF GAINING THE TRUST
OF PEOPLE IN THESE COUNTRIES IN
WEST AFRICA AND ON THE
CONTINENT.
DR. GARRY, YOU WERE SPEAKING OF
DIFFICULTIES ON THE POINT OF
ORIGIN.
WHAT NEEDS TO CHANGE?
AGAIN, WE DON'T EVEN KNOW IF
THIS DRUG ZMapp IS WHAT HAS
LED TO THE SURVIVAL SO FAR OF
THE AMERICAN HEALTHCARE WORKERS,
BUT EVEN ASSUMING IT IS MAKING A
DIFFERENCE, WHAT NEEDS TO
HAPPEN, DO YOU BELIEVE, IN THE
UNITED STATES OR IN THE PLACES
WHERE THESE DRUGS ARE BEING
CREATED AND MANUFACTURED?
>> WELL, FIRST, LET ME ADDRESS
SOMETHING MS. GARRETT SAID.
THERE ARE ALWAYS GOING TO BE
SOME POEM IN A POPULATION THAT
ARE GOING TO RESIST WHAT THE
GOVERNMENT SAYS AND WHAT THEY'RE
DOING BUT THE VAST MAJORITY OF
PEOPLE IN SIERRA LEONE AND WEST
AFRICA ARE LISTENING TO THEIR
GOVERNMENT.
THE GOVERNMENT IS STEPPING UP,
DOING THE RIGHT THING AND THERE
IS COOPERATION THERE.
SO YOU'RE GOING TO GET A SMALL
FRACTION THAT ARE GOING TO SAY,
NO, THAT'S NOT THE RIGHT THING
TO DO, THAT'S -- YOU KNOW, WHITE
PEOPLE COMING IN AND CAUSING A
PROBLEM.
BUT IT'S NOT THE -- IT'S NOT THE
VAST MAJORITY OF PEOPLE THERE.
AND SO WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS WE
NEED TO ENGAGE THE GOVERNMENTS.
WE NEED TO GET ALL THE ETHICAL
APPROVALS IN PLACE ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE ATLANTIC, IN AFRICA AND
IN THE UNITED STATES.
WE NEED TO GET OUT OF OUR OWN
WAY.
IF WE CAN MAKE THESE WONDERFUL
NEW DRUGS THAT MAY OR MAY NOT
HAVE HAD AN IMPACT IN THE TWO
AMERICANS IN ATLANTA, LET'S TRY
SOME THINGS.
LET'S NOT BE FACED WITH THE NEXT
OUTBREAK AND SAYING, OH, WELL,
WE CAN'T DO SOMETHING NOW
BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE THE PROPER
ETHICS APPROVALS IN PLACE.
>> Woodruff: THESE ARE TOUGH
QUESTIONS AND WE'LL CONTINUE TO
LOOK AT THIS AS I KNOW THE TWO
OF YOU ARE, DR. ROBERT GARRY AND
LAURIE GARRETT, WE THANK YOU
BOTH.
THANBOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ONE HUNDRED YEARS
AGO THE WORLD WAS DRAWN INTO
WHAT WAS CALLED THE GREAT WAR.
17 MILLION PEOPLE DIED OVER THE
COURSE OF FOUR YEARS IN A
CONFLICT THAT LAID THE
FOUNDATION FOR WARS THAT
CONTINUE TODAY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: BRIGHT RED CERAMIC
POPPIES SEEMED EVERYWHERE THIS
WEEK, AT THE TOWER OF LONDON.
THEY CASCADED DOWN THE STONEWORK
INTO THE DRY MOAT, EACH ONE
REPRESENTING A BRITISH SOLDIER
WHO DIED DURING THE WAR, NEARLY
900-THOUSAND IN ALL.
THE POPPY WAS ABOUT THE ONLY
FLOWER THAT WOULD GROW IN THE
WASTELANDS OF BELGIUM AND
NORTHERN FRANCE, WHERE MILLIONS
FOUGHT AND DIED IN FOUR LONG
YEARS OF TRENCH WARFARE.
THIS WEEK, FORMER ENEMIES HAVE
MARKED THE CENTENNIAL OF THE
CONFLICT, WITH CEREMONIES IN
BELGIUM AND ELSEWHERE.
>> ( translated ): THE
REMEMBRANCE OF THE FIRST WORLD
WAR ALLOWS US TO REFLECT ON THE
DECISION MADE TO KEEP THE PEACE
AND BRING PEOPLE CLOSER
TOGETHER.
THE EUROPEAN MEMORY REMINDS US
THAT NO COUNTRY CAN LAST WITHOUT
A SPIRIT THAT CAN SURPASS THE
SUFFERING ENDURED, AND WHICH
MOVES BEYOND THE QUESTION OF
CULPABILITY AND DIRECTS ITSELF
RESOLUTELY TOWARDS THE FUTURE.
>> Reporter: THE GREAT WAR, AS
IT CAME TO BE CALLED, WAS THE
WORLD'S FIRST FULLY
INDUSTRIALIZED WAR WITH TANKS,
MACHINE GUNS, AIRPLANES AND
CHEMICAL WEAPONS USED TO
DEVASTATING EFFECT.
NEUTRAL AT THE BEGINNING, THE
U.S. DID NOT JOIN THE FIGHT
UNTIL 1917.
THE AMERICAN COMMANDER, GENERAL
JOHN "BLACKJACK" PERSHING,
RECORDED THIS APPEAL TO THE HOME
FRONT, THOUGHT TO BE THE FIRST
FROM A BATTLEFIELD.
>> 3000 MILES FROM HOME AN
AMERICAN ARMY IS FIGHTING FOR
YOU.
EVERYTHING YOU HOLD WORTHWHILE
IS AT STAKE.
ONLY THE HARDEST BLOWS CAN WIN
AGAINST THE ENEMY WE ARE
FIGHTING.
>> Reporter: ULTIMATELY, MORE
THAN FOUR MILLION AMERICANS
FOUGHT, 116,000 DIED AND 200,000
WERE WOUNDED.
WORLDWIDE, 17 MILLION SOLDIERS
AND CIVILIANS WERE KILLED IN
WESTERN AND EASTERN EUROPE, AND
ON OTHER CONTINENTS.
THE DEATH AND DESTRUCTION
RADICALLY ALTERED THE MAPS OF
EUROPE AND THE MIDDLE EAST, AND
THE COURSE OF WORLD HISTORY.
IN 1917, THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION
BROUGHT VLADIMIR LENIN TO POWER,
AND LED TO THE FORMATION OF THE
SOVIET UNION.
THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE ALONG WITH
THE AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN AND GERMAN
EMPIRES HAD DOMINATED THE
EUROPEAN MAINLAND BEFORE THE
WAR.
ALL THREE COLLAPSED AND THEIR
TERRITORIES ULTIMATELY BECAME
THE STATES OF MODERN DAY EUROPE.
THE OTTOMAN EMPIRE WAS DIVIDED
INTO THE NATION-STATES INCLUDING
SYRIA AND IRAQ OF THE MIDDLE
EAST.
EVER SINCE, THE REDRAWN BORDERS
HAVE BEEN POINTS OF CONTENTION,
HELPING FUEL CONFLICTS THAT
CONTINUE TODAY.
FRENCH PRIME MINISTER FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE TOOK NOTE OF THAT
SUNDAY, SAYING IF FRANCE AND
GERMANY CAN LIVE IN PEACE, SO
TOO CAN THE MIDDLE EAST.
>> ( translated ): TO THOSE WHO
ARE LOSING HOPE ABOUT THE PEACE
PROCESS IN THE MIDDLE EAST, WE
COULDN'T SEND A MORE BEAUTIFUL
MESSAGE THAN TODAY'S.
FRANCE AND GERMANY'S HISTORY
PROVES THAT DETERMINATION CAN
OVERCOME FATALITY.
AND THAT TWO PEOPLE WHO WERE
VIEWED AS HEREDITARY ENEMIES
CAN, WITHIN A FEW YEARS,
RECONCILE.
>> Reporter: WORLD WAR ONE
ULTIMATELY ENDED WITH THE TREATY
OF VERSAILLES, SIGNED IN PARIS
IN 1919.
FROM THEN TO NOW, WE TURN TO
THREE PEOPLE WHO HAVE STUDIED
AND WRITTEN EX TEBSIVELY ON THE
WAR.
MARGARET McMILLAN THE AWE FOR
OF THE WAR THAT ENDED PEACE, A
PROFESSOR OF INTERNATIONAL
HISTORY AT OXFORD UNIVERSITY.
JOHN MERE SHIMMER OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO, AUTHOR OF
THE TRAGEDY OF GREAT POWER POLL
SIX, AND JACK'S BOOK THE LOST
HISTORY OF THE WAR OF 1914, NOW
A NEWS ANALYST FOR THE PROGRAM
"ON POINT."
MARGARET MILLER, HOW IS THE
WORLD WE LIVE IN TODAY SHAPED OR
INFLUENCED BY WORLD WAR I?
>> WHAT WORLD WAR I DOES IS
BEGIN TO DESTROY EUROPEAN POWER,
THE UNITED STATES' RISE TO GREAT
POWER WAS ACCELERATED.
THE FIRST WORLD WAR LEAVES
BEHIND THE LEG SAY OF VIOLENCE,
ETHNIC AND RADICAL POLITICS
WHICH PLAYS OUT TO THE 21s
21st AND INTO THE 23r
23rd CENTURY.
>> Reporter: HOW DO YOU ANSWER
THAT, LOOKING INTO HEADLINES
ABOUT THE MIDDLE EAST AND
UKRAINE AND RUSSIA AND SO ON?
>> TWO POINTS.
FIRST OF ALL, IT IS THE FIRST
TIME THAT THE UNITED STATES
ENGAGES IN A MAJOR WAR OUTSIDE
OF THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE AND,
THEREFORE, IT REPRESENTS THE
FIRST TIME THE UNITED STATES
BEGINS TO ACT AS THE WORLD'S
POLICEMAN, A POLICY THAT IT
CONTINUES TO PURSUE TODAY.
SECONDLY, IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND THAT, AS A RESULT OF
THE WAR, THREE BEG EMPIRES --
THE RUSSIAN, AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN
EMPIRE AND THE OTTOMAN EMPIRE
COLLAPSED.
TOUGH MAP AS IT EXISTS TODAY
AFTER WORLD WAR I AND A
FUNDAMENTALLE CHANGE IN THE MAP
OF EUROPE, YOU HAVE ALL THESE
STATES THAT DIDN'T EXIST BEFORE
WORLD WAR I CREATED AFTER WORLD
WAR I, COUNTRIES LIKE POLAND,
HUNGARY, THE BALL TICK STATES
AND SO FORTH AND SO ON, AND THAT
HAS HAD A MAJOR CONSEQUENCE ON
EUROPEAN POLITICS EVER SINCE
THEN.
>> Brown: SAME QUESTION, JACK,
BUT FRAMING IT A LITTLE
DIFFERENTLY, THINKING IN TERMS
OF SOME OF THE THINGS WE HEARD
ABOUT, THE CATALYST FOR NATION
STATE, FOR NATIONALISM, FOR THE
INDUSTRIALIZATION OF WAR,
CERTAINLY, AFTER WORLD WAR I.
>> YES, INDEED.
AS A MECHANIZATION OF WAR, BUT
THERE IS A CULTURAL OR
PSYCHOLOGICAL LEGACY THAT THE
HISTORIAN WHO DIED RECENTLY,
NEARLY AGE 100, COMMENTED ON.
HE SAID THE LEGACY OF THE WAR
WAS BOTHERRISM, THAT PARENT PEOF
HIS PARENTS GENERATION, WHO GREW
TO MATURITY BEFORE 1914,
COULDN'T IMAGINE THE HORRORS
THAT WERE TO COME, THAT THERE
WERE LIMITS TO WHAT YOU COULD
EXPECT NATIONS TO DO TO ONE
ANOTHER.
OF COURSE, THE NATIONS HAD BEEN
DOING TERRIBLE THINGS TO PEOPLE
IN THE TROPICS, YOU KNOW, AND
THEY HAD BEEN DOING -- ONE
BATTLE IN TWO HOURS, 10,000
10,000DERBISHES WERE GUNNED
DOWN.
PEOPLE IN THE THIRD WORLD FELT
THE VIOLENCE.
BUT ONLY AFTER THE GREAT WAR
THAT THE BA BARBARISM BECAME CAE
TO BE IN THE EUROPEAN NATIONS.
>> Brown: TO WHAT EXTENT WAS
ALL THAT THERE IN THE AFTERMATH
OF WORLD WAR I?
TO WHAT EXTENT WAS IT THERE FROM
THE BEGINNING?
>> IT WAS THERE BEFORE THE WAR.
A NATION STATE WAS ALREADY
THERE.
WHAT THE FIRST WORLD WAR DID IS
MAKE IT MUCH MORE POSSIBLE
BECAUSE IT DESTROYED THE OLD
EMPIRES WHO KEPT THE DIFFERENT
NASH NATIONALITIES INSIDE ONE
BORDER SO YOU HAVE A SERIES OF
ETHNIC BASED STATES THAT
CONTAINED MINORITIES AND IT WAS
A RECIPE FOR DISASTER AND WE SEE
IT TODAY AS IRAQ IS GROWN APART
BY THE DIFFERENT ETHNICITIES.
>> Brown: IT'S STILL WITH US
EVEN IN EUROPE.
I WAS READING ABOUT COMING
ELECTIONS IN CATALONIA,
SCOTLAND, THESE ISSUES ARE STILL
VERY MUCH WITH US.
>> WELL, I THINK IN A FUNNY WAY
IT'S ALMOST A REACTION TO
GLOBALIZATION BECAUSE I THINK AS
THE WORLD GETS MORE
INTERCONNECTED, PLEASE CLING TO
SMALLER IDENTITIES AS SORT OF A
HOME AND SAFETY.
I AGREE.
SCOTLAND WAS A STRONG
NATIONALIST MOVEMENT, CATALONIA.
YOU SEE IT IN EASTERN EUROPE IN.
THE BALKANS YOU HAVE STRONG
NATIONAL IDENTITIES.
YOU HAVE TROUBLE BETWEEN
HUNGARIANS AND NEIGHBORS BECAUSE
OF HUNGARIANS LIVING OUTSIDE OF
HUNGARY SO WE HAVEN'T MOVED AWAY
FROM IT YET.
>> Brown: WHEN YOU'RE THINKING
OF GREAT POWER SITUATIONS TODAY
OR THE KIND OF GLOBAL STRUGGLES
WE SEE TODAY, ARE THERE LESSONS
YOU MOST LOOK AT FROM 100 YEARS
AGO?
>> I THINK THERE ARE TWO
FUNDAMENTAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
EUROPE TODAY AND EUROPE IN 1914.
I THINK THE FIRST IS THAT IN
1914, YOU HAD ONE COUNTRY,
GERMANY, THAT WAS ESPECIALLY
POWERFUL YET FEARFUL AND I THINK
THAT THAT GERMANY, IMPERIAL
GERMANY WAS THE PRINCIPAL CAUSE
OF THE WAR.
TODAY YOU HAVE NO POWER IN
EUROPE WHO HAS THE POWER TO
DOMINATE SO NO ONE COUNTRY CAN
CAUSE THE TROUBLE.
THE SECOND IS NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
I THINK IT WOULD BE ALMOST
IMPOSSIBLE TODAY TO HAVE WORLD
WAR 3 THAT LOOKED LIKE EITHER
WORLD WAR I OR II ANYWHERE ON
THE PLANET BECAUSE OF NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARE MAJOR FORCES
FOR PEACE, BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN
YOU COULDN'T HAVE A LIMITED WAR.
ALL OF THIS IS TO SAY I THINK
THE SITUATION IN EUROPE IS MORE
STABLE TODAY THAN BEFORE WORLD
WAR I, BEFORE WORLD WAR II OR
EVEN DURING THE COLD WAR.
>> Brown: AND, OF COURSE,
GLOBALLY, WE STILL HAVE
SUPERPOWER COMPETITION, A RISE
IN CHINA, ASIA, WHAT KIND OF
LESSONS DO YOU SEE FROM LOOKING
AT THE RUNUP FROM 1914?
>> WELL, I SEE WHAT GRAHAM
ALLISON AT HARVARD HAS CALLED A
TRAP LOOMING AS A POTENTIAL OVER
HISTORY, U.S.-CHINESE RELATIONS.
THE TRAP REFERS TO THE HISTORY
OF THE PELOPONESIAN WAR IN WHICH
HE WRITES IT WAS THE RISE OF
ATHENS AND THIS FEAR INSPIRED IN
SPARTA THAT MADE WAR INEVITABLE.
WELL CHANGE THAT AROUND.
IT WAS THE RISE OF RUSSIA AND
THE FEAR THIS INSPIRED IN
GERMANY IN 1914 THAT MADE WAR
INEVITABLE.
AS YOU LOOK THROUGH THE GERMANS
IN THE PERIOD WE'RE SAYING, IT
WAS A FEELING OF NOW OR NEVER,
RUSSIA'S POWER WILL BE
IRRESISTIBLE IN A FEW MORE
YEARS, IT'S STRATEGIC RAILROADS
AND WESTERN BORDERS WILL BE
COMPLETED.
OUR WHOLE STRATEGY OF A
TWO-FRONT WAR WHICH COUNTED ON A
LAG IN MOBILIZATION BETWEEN
RUSSIA AND GERMANY WILL BE OUT
THE WINDOW, WE WON'T BE ABLE TO
STAND FOR IT, LET'S HAVE A
PREVENTATIVE WAR NOW.
YOU SAY WE WOULD NEVER HAVE A
PREVENTATIVE WAR IN CHINA, BUT
IN 1990, THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE WROTE A PAPER THAT
MADE FRONT-PAGE NEWS IN THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" SAYING IT SHOULD BE
THE POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES
TO PREVENT THE RISE OF A RIVAL
POWER AND, OF COURSE, THE BUSH
DOCTRINE OF 2002, AS IT'S BEEN
CALLED, ESSENTIALLY IS A
DOCTRINE OF PREVENTATIVE WAR.
WE WILL NOT WAIT FOR DANGERS TO
GATHER, WE WILL PREVENT THAT
FROM HAPPENING.
SO WE HAVE BEEN TEMPTED AT THE
LEVEL OF OUR ELITES, AND THEN TO
TALK ABOUT PREVENTATIVE WAR.
>> Brown: MARGARET McMILLAN,
I WONDER, AS AN HISTORIAN, DO
YOU LIKE TO MAKE THESE DIRECT
ANALOGIES OR DO YOU HEAR ECHO?
WHAT'S USEFUL FOR US TO THINK
ABOUT NOW?
>> I THINK WHAT IS USEFUL TO
THINK ABOUT IS HOW WE MIGHT
FORMULATE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT BY DRAWING ON THE
PAST, BUT I DON'T THINK THE
SITUATIONS HUNDREDS OF YEARS AGO
ARE THE SAME AS TODAY.
SO MANY MORE THINGS HAVE
HAPPENED AND AS JOHN POINTS OUT
WE NOW HAVE NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
I THINK WE CAN LEARN THAT IT IS
VERY IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND
YOUR NEIGHBORS, TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT IT IS THEY'RE WORRIED
ABOUT, TO TRY TO BUILD BRIDGES,
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT IN
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
I WOULDN'T AGREE COMPLETELY WITH
JACK AND I DON'T THINK THINGS
ARE INEVITABLE IN HUMAN HISTORY.
I THINK IF WE ACCEPT THERE ARE
HUMAN FACTORS, AND POSSIBILITIES
OF MAKING DECISIONS THAT NATIONS
ON THE RISE DON'T NECESSARILY
NEED TO GO TO WAR WITH THE
COMFORTABLE NATIONS.
YOU COULD HAVE ARGUED BRITAIN IS
PROBABLY GOING TO WAR WITH THE
UNITED STATES IN THE 1890s
BECAUSE THE UNITED STATES IS A
THREAT TO THE BRITISH POSITION
IN THE NEW WORLD.
IT DIDN'T HAPPEN.
THEY DECIDED TO MANAGE THE
RELATIONSHIP.
I THINK WE NEED TO REMEMBER THAT
THERE ARE CHOICES IN HISTORY.
>> Reporter: ON THAT, WE'LL
CONTINUE THAT DISCUSSION, WE'LL
DO THAT ONLINE AND I'LL INVITE
THE AUDIENCE TO JOIN US THERE
LATER ON BUT, FOR NOW, THANK YOU
ALL SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
CALLED FOR A REVIEW OF USING AN
EXPERIMENTAL U.S. DRUG AGAINST
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK THAT'S KILLED
932 PEOPLE IN WEST AFRICA.
THIS EVENING, PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID HE NEEDS MORE INFORMATION
ON THE EBOLA DRUB BEFORE SEEKING
FAST TRACK APPROVAL.
AND INVESTIGATORS IN AFGHANISTAN
SAID IT APPEARS AN AFGHAN
SOLDIER HAD NO SPECIFIC TARGET
IN MIND WHEN HE OPENED FIRE
YESTERDAY, KILLING A U.S. ARMY
GENERAL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, SINCE THE 2011
EARTHQUAKE THAT TRIGGERED A
NUCLEAR DISASTER IN JAPAN, OUR
SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT MILES
O'BRIEN HAS RETURNED SEVERAL
TIMES TO THE SITE OF THE
FUKUSHIMA DAIICHI POWER PLANT,
INCLUDING A TRIP INSIDE ITS
HAZARDOUS EXCLUSION ZONE.
WE'VE CREATED A DOCUMENTARY FROM
HIS REPORTS THAT INCLUDES A
NEVER-BEFORE SEEN TOUR OF
FUKUSHIMA'S SISTER PLANT, WHICH
NARROWLY ESCAPED THE SAME
CALAMITY.
WATCH THAT VIDEO, ON OUR SCIENCE
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND AGAIN, TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE FIVE MORE.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
TOMORROW, WE MARK THE 40TH
ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT RICHARD
M. NIXON'S RESIGNATION AND
EXAMINE HOW IT CHANGED AMERICAN
HISTORY AND POLITICS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.